---
title: Using ESLint in Nuxt 3
description: A recipe to correctly configure the new ESLint module in a Nuxt 3 project - and avoid some common, but not obvious issues.
date: 
  value: 2024-08-07T00:00:00.000Z
  label: Published 
---

## The challenge

Learning to make the most of every feature Nuxt provides is fun - like playing with `lego`. In contrast, using all the tooling that developers employ and doing so effectively seems like a different challenge entirely. There have been many times that I have set out to experiment with an idea only to find myself sabotaged by some quirk in my development environment. 

The issue that seems to catch me out more often than any other is prettifying and linting. It's frustrating and confusing to have your code look messy and unformatted when it's supposed to resemble the examples you're trying to follow in the documentation.

So when I saw that the Nuxt team had consolidated all the various and historical linting strategies into one new module, I thought my troubles were over - and they were - eventually!

Here's what I learned - for anyone interested (as well as for my future self, who will have forgotten the details by next week).

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons:hand-thumb-up-solid
color: accent
target: _blank
to: https://github.com/nuxt/eslint/issues/462
---
Special thanks to [@hacknug](https://github.com/hacknug) who thoroughly and patiently answered all my questions in nuxt/eslint issue #462
::

## Install the `Nuxt ESLint` module

As per the [Nuxt ESLint docs](https://eslint.nuxt.com/packages/module), there are two ways to install the module:
::code-group

```bash [Quick Setup]
npx nuxi module add eslint
```

```bash [Manual Setup]
pnpm add -D @nuxt/eslint eslint
```
::

If following the `Manual Setup`, there are some extra steps required in terms of creating a `eslint.config.mjs` file and adding `@nuxt/eslint` to the `modules` section of `nuxt.config.ts`.

My experience was that these steps were not enough to make the module work as I expected. 

Having previously tied myself in knots trying to configure `prettier`, I was intrigued by the possiblity of using the `stylistic` option in `eslint`. The docs cover a lot of detail but I wasn't able to work out what the happy-path is to achieving this.

## The recipe

::code-group

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  eslint: {
    config: {
      stylistic: true
    }
    // I found these settings caused errors when running in dev
    // checker: {
    //   lintOnStart: true,
    //   fix: true,
    // },
  },
})
```

```ts [eslint.config.mjs]
import withNuxt from './.nuxt/eslint.config.mjs'

export default withNuxt()
  .override('nuxt/stylistic', {
    rules: {
      '@stylistic/arrow-parens': ['error', 'always'], // change these as per personal preference
      '@stylistic/comma-dangle': ['error', 'never']
    }
  })
```

```json [.vscode/settings.json]
{
  "eslint.useFlatConfig": true,
  "editor.codeActionsOnSave": {
    "source.fixAll.eslint": "always",
  },
}
```
::

## VS Code: Unexpected issues

There were additional problems that I unwittingly attributed to the `eslint` configuation. It took me a while to figure out the real issues.

1. The VS Code language server would often crash - and without warning. Quitting and restarting VS Code seemed to be the only workaround once I noticed that none of the linting or prettifying worked as expected.

2. I discovered that my VS Code global settings added a certain amount of chaos - they seemed to override the `settings.json` file in my `.vscode` folder. Deleting them and starting again really helped.

## Example repos

I trawled Github for official Nuxt projects looking for example eslint setups. Many of them didn't use the new module. When they did, their complex combinations of settings were so varied, I didn't find them much help.

A few days after I had finally worked out my recipe, I happened to come across the [docs template](https://github.com/nuxt-ui-pro/docs) for [Nuxt UI](https://ui.nuxt.com). This repo demonstrates the happy-path eslint recipe perfectly.